Necomi installation guide	{#install}
=========================

Quick install
-------------

Necomi uses [CMake] as build system. You can simply configure the library
and generate the appropriate platform dependent make files with

    $ cmake .

passing it options to customize your build or installation.

Running the unit tests is recommended to make sure that everything is
working on your system, particularly if you are using the git repository.
Use the `check` target to build and run the unit tests:

    $ make check

Finally, you can install the library with the `install` target, assuming you
have the proper rights to write in the chosen install prefix.

    $ sudo make install

Building
--------

Necomi is distributed as a templatized library, so no code will be compiled
with a plain `make` call. The `check` target will build and run the unit
tests.

To use necomi, you need a compiler with support for C++14. The library
has been succesfully built with GCC 4.9.1 and clang 3.4.2.

Testing
-------

The unit tests are written using [Catch], which is shipped with the
sources. Running the `check` target of the Makefile generated by CMake
will run the tests.

Installing
----------

By default, CMake installs the package content in `/usr/local` on various
systems. You can customize the installation path by setting the standard
variable

    $ cmake -D -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$HOME/usr .

Be aware that some environement variable will then need to be modified
for the package to work properly. In particular if using `pkg-config`, you
may need to set `PKG_CONFIG_PATH` afterwards.

API documentation
-----------------

If [Doxygen] is installed and found by CMake during the configuration, you
can generate the documentation by running

    $ make doc

Linking
-------

Building a software with the library simply requires adding an appropriate
`#include <necomi/necomi.h>` in your source code, and making sure the
compiler can find the headers. With clang or GCC this requires adding
an `-I/path/to/necomi` option, if not installed in the standard locations.
You may prefer to delegate the options finding to pkg-config or CMake.
We provide both `necomi.pc` and `FindNecomi.cmake` in the source distribution.

[Catch]: https://github.com/philsquared/Catch
[CMake]: http://cmake.org
[CppUnit]: http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/cppunit/
[Doxygen]: http://www.stack.nl/~dimitri/doxygen/
